.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, before:

DO NOT DELETE THIS INFORMATION.

> Please read this information carefully.

GitHub issues is for feature requests or bugs, please do not post issues asking for help or how to do X, Y or Z. 
You can use our irc channel ##librenms on freenode to ask questions or our [community site](https://community.librenms.org).

Please confirm each of the sections below by putting an `x` in the box like `[x]`.

- [ ] Is your install up to date? [Updating your install](http://docs.librenms.org/General/Updating/)
      Please do not submit an issue if your install is not up to date within the last 24 hours or on a stable monthly release.
- [ ] Please include all of the information between the `====================================` section of `./validate.php` which you can run from the cli.
- [ ] Unless your issue is for a WebUI fix or feature then please provide ALL info asked for [here](http://docs.librenms.org/Support/FAQ/#faq20).
- [ ] Please provide as much detail as possible.
- [ ] Please do NOT post more than 10 lines of debug information here, use a pastebin service or GitHub Gists.

Commit message:

update github new issue template (#5779)

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, after:

DO NOT DELETE THIS INFORMATION.

> Please read this information carefully.

GitHub issues is for  bugs, please do not post issues asking for help or how to do X, Y or Z. 
You can use our irc channel ##librenms on freenode to ask questions or our [community site](https://community.librenms.org).
If you have a feature request please post this on our [community site](https://community.librenms.org/c/feature-requests).

Please confirm each of the sections below by putting an `x` in the box like `[x]`.

- [ ] Is your install up to date? [Updating your install](http://docs.librenms.org/General/Updating/)
      Please do not submit an issue if your install is not up to date within the last 24 hours or on a stable monthly release.
- [ ] Please include all of the information between the `====================================` section of `./validate.php` which you can run from the cli.
- [ ] Please provide ALL info asked for [here](http://docs.librenms.org/Support/FAQ/#faq20).
- [ ] Please provide as much detail as possible.
- [ ] Please do NOT post more than 10 lines of debug information here, use a pastebin service or GitHub Gists.
