doc/Extensions/Authentication.md, before:

source: Extensions/Authentication.md
# Authentication modules

LibreNMS supports multiple authentication modules along with [Two Factor Auth](http://docs.librenms.org/Extensions/Two-Factor-Auth/).
Here we will provide configuration details for these modules.

#### Available authentication modules

- MySQL: mysql

- LDAP: ldap

- Active Directory: active_directory

- HTTP Auth: http-auth

- Radius: radius

#### User levels

- 1: Normal User. You will need to assign device / port permissions for users at this level.

- 5: Global Read.

- 10: This is a global read/write admin account

- 11: Demo Account. Provides full read/write with certain restrictions (i.e can't delete devices).

#### Enable authentication module

To enable a particular authentication module you need to set this up in config.php.

```php
$config['auth_mechanism'] = "mysql";
```

#### Note for SELinux users
When using SELinux on the LibreNMS server, you need to allow Apache (httpd) to connect LDAP/Active Directory server, this is disabled by default. You can use SELinux Booleans to allow network access to LDAP resources with this command:

```shell
setsebool -P httpd_can_connect_ldap=1
```

#### MySQL Authentication

Config option: `mysql`

This is default option with LibreNMS so you should have already got the configuration setup.

```php
$config['db_host'] = "HOSTNAME";
$config['db_user'] = "DBUSER";
$config['db_pass'] = "DBPASS";
$config['db_name'] = "DBNAME";
```

#### HTTP Authentication

Config option: `http-auth`

LibreNMS will expect the user to have authenticated via your webservice already. At this stage it will need to assign a
userlevel for that user which is done in one of two ways:

- A user exists in MySQL still where the usernames match up.

- A global guest user (which still needs to be added into MySQL:
```php
$config['http_auth_guest'] = "guest";
```
This will then assign the userlevel for guest to all authenticated users.

#### LDAP Authentication

Config option: `ldap`

This one is a little more complicated :)

First of all, install ___php-ldap___ for CentOS/RHEL or ___php5-ldap___ for Ubuntu/Debian.

```php
$config['auth_ldap_version'] = 3; # v2 or v3
$config['auth_ldap_server'] = "ldap.example.com";
$config['auth_ldap_port']   = 389;
$config['auth_ldap_prefix'] = "uid=";
$config['auth_ldap_suffix'] = ",ou=People,dc=example,dc=com";
$config['auth_ldap_group']  = "cn=groupname,ou=groups,dc=example,dc=com";

$config['auth_ldap_groupbase'] = "ou=group,dc=example,dc=com";
$config['auth_ldap_groups']['admin']['level'] = 10;
$config['auth_ldap_groups']['pfy']['level'] = 7;
$config['auth_ldap_groups']['support']['level'] = 1;
$config['auth_ldap_groupmemberattr'] = "memberUid";
```

Typically auth_ldap_suffix, auth_ldap_group, auth_ldap_groupbase, auth_ldap_groups are what's required to be configured.

An example config setup for use with Jumpcloud LDAP as a service is:

```php
$config['auth_mechanism'] = "ldap"; # default, other options: ldap, http-auth
unset($config['auth_ldap_group']);
unset($config['auth_ldap_groups']);
$config['auth_ldap_groups']['librenms']['level'] = 10;
$config['auth_ldap_version'] = 3; # v2 or v3
$config['auth_ldap_server'] = "ldap.jumpcloud.com";
$config['auth_ldap_port'] = 389;
$config['auth_ldap_prefix'] = "uid=";
$config['auth_ldap_suffix'] = ",ou=Users,o={id},dc=jumpcloud,dc=com";
$config['auth_ldap_groupbase'] = "cn=librenms,ou=Users,o={id},dc=jumpcloud,dc=com";
$config['auth_ldap_groupmemberattr'] = "memberUid";
```

Replace {id} with the unique ID provided by Jumpcloud.

#### HTTP Authentication / LDAP Authorization

Config option: `ldap-authorization`

This module is a combination of ___http-auth___ and ___ldap___

LibreNMS will expect the user to have authenticated via your webservice already (e.g. using Kerberos Authentication in Apache) but will use LDAP to determine and assign the userlevel of a user.
The userlevel will be calculated by using LDAP group membership information as the ___ldap___ module does.

The configuration is the same as for the ___ldap___ module with one extra option: auth_ldap_cache_ttl.
This option allows to control how long user information (user_exists, userid, userlevel) are cached within the PHP Session.
The default value is 300 seconds.
To disabled this caching (highly discourage) set this option to 0.

```php
$config['auth_ldap_cache_ttl'] = 300;
```

#### Active Directory Authentication

Config option: `active_directory`

This is similar to LDAP Authentication. Install __php_ldap__ for CentOS/RHEL or __php5-ldap__ for Debian/Ubuntu.

If you have issues with secure LDAP try setting `$config['auth_ad_check_certificates']` to `0`.

##### Require actual membership of the configured groups

If you set ```$config['auth_ad_require_groupmembership']``` to 1, the authenticated user has to be a member of the specific group. Otherwise all users can authenticate, but are limited to user level 0 and only have access to shared dashboards.

> Cleanup of old accounts is done using the authlog. You will need to set the cleanup date for when old accounts will be purged which will happen AUTOMATICALLY.
> Please ensure that you set the $config['authlog_purge'] value to be greater than $config['active_directory]['users_purge'] otherwise old users won't be removed.


##### Sample configuration

```
$config['auth_ad_url']                     = "ldaps://<your-domain.controll.er>";
$config['auth_ad_domain']                  = "<your-domain.com>";
$config['auth_ad_base_dn']                 = "<dc=your-domain,dc=com>";
$config['auth_ad_check_certificates']      = true;  // require a valid ssl certificate
$config['auth_ad_debug']                   = false; // enable for verbose debug messages
$config['active_directory']['users_purge'] = 30;    // purge users who haven't logged in for 30 days.
$config['auth_ad_require_groupmembership'] = false; // require users to be members of a group listed below
$config['auth_ad_groups']['<ad-admingroup>']['level'] = 10;
$config['auth_ad_groups']['<ad-usergroup>']['level']  = 7;
```

Replace `<ad-admingroup>` with your Active Directory admin-user group and `<ad-usergroup>` with your standard user group.

##### Active Directory redundancy

You can set two Active Directory servers by editing the `$config['auth_ad_url']` like this example:

```
$config['auth_ad_url'] = "ldaps://dc1.example.com ldaps://dc2.example.com";
```

#### Radius Authentication

Please note that a mysql user is created for each user the logs in successfully. User level 1 is assigned to those accounts so you will then need to assign the relevant permissions unless you set `$config['radius']['userlevel']` to be something other than 1.

> Cleanup of old accounts is done using the authlog. You will need to set the cleanup date for when old accounts will be purged which will happen AUTOMATICALLY.
> Please ensure that you set the $config['authlog_purge'] value to be greater than $config['radius']['users_purge'] otherwise old users won't be removed.

```php
$config['radius']['hostname']   = 'localhost';
$config['radius']['port']       = '1812';
$config['radius']['secret']     = 'testing123';
$config['radius']['timeout']    = 3;
$config['radius']['users_purge'] = 14;//Purge users who haven't logged in for 14 days.
$config['radius']['default_level'] = 1;//Set the default user level when automatically creating a user.
```

#### HTTP Authentication / AD Authorization

Config option: `ad-authorization`

This module is a combination of ___http-auth___ and ___active_directory___

LibreNMS will expect the user to have authenticated via your webservice already (e.g. using Kerberos Authentication in Apache) but will use Active Directory lookups to determine and assign the userlevel of a user.
The userlevel will be calculated by using AD group membership information as the ___active_directory___ module does.

The configuration is the same as for the ___active_directory___ module with two extra, optional options: auth_ad_binduser and auth_ad_bindpassword.
These should be set to a AD user with read capabilities in your AD Domain in order to be able to perform searches. 
If these options are omitted, the module will attempt an anonymous bind (which then of course must be allowed by your Active Directory server(s)).

There is also one extra option for controlling user information caching: auth_ldap_cache_ttl.
This option allows to control how long user information (user_exists, userid, userlevel) are cached within the PHP Session.
The default value is 300 seconds.
To disable this caching (highly discourage) set this option to 0.

```php
$config['auth_ad_binduser']     = "ad_binduser";
$config['auth_ad_bindpassword'] = "ad_bindpassword";
$config['auth_ldap_cache_ttl']  = 300;
```

Commit message:

feature: Add the ability to include an LDAP filter for users/groups in AD (#4494)
* Add auth_ad_(group|user)_filter options

* use global

* Fix some AD annoyances

Use the power of the LDAP filter to minimize the number of queries and
hopefully help performance in get_userlist, change semantics of
auth_ad_(user|group)_filter in $config to be anded with
samaccountname=USERNAME.

* remove unused variable

* update documentation

* Update Authentication.md

doc/Extensions/Authentication.md, after:

source: Extensions/Authentication.md
# Authentication modules

LibreNMS supports multiple authentication modules along with [Two Factor Auth](http://docs.librenms.org/Extensions/Two-Factor-Auth/).
Here we will provide configuration details for these modules.

#### Available authentication modules

- MySQL: mysql

- LDAP: ldap

- Active Directory: active_directory

- HTTP Auth: http-auth

- Radius: radius

#### User levels

- 1: Normal User. You will need to assign device / port permissions for users at this level.

- 5: Global Read.

- 10: This is a global read/write admin account

- 11: Demo Account. Provides full read/write with certain restrictions (i.e can't delete devices).

#### Enable authentication module

To enable a particular authentication module you need to set this up in config.php.

```php
$config['auth_mechanism'] = "mysql";
```

#### Note for SELinux users
When using SELinux on the LibreNMS server, you need to allow Apache (httpd) to connect LDAP/Active Directory server, this is disabled by default. You can use SELinux Booleans to allow network access to LDAP resources with this command:

```shell
setsebool -P httpd_can_connect_ldap=1
```

#### MySQL Authentication

Config option: `mysql`

This is default option with LibreNMS so you should have already got the configuration setup.

```php
$config['db_host'] = "HOSTNAME";
$config['db_user'] = "DBUSER";
$config['db_pass'] = "DBPASS";
$config['db_name'] = "DBNAME";
```

#### HTTP Authentication

Config option: `http-auth`

LibreNMS will expect the user to have authenticated via your webservice already. At this stage it will need to assign a
userlevel for that user which is done in one of two ways:

- A user exists in MySQL still where the usernames match up.

- A global guest user (which still needs to be added into MySQL:
```php
$config['http_auth_guest'] = "guest";
```
This will then assign the userlevel for guest to all authenticated users.

#### LDAP Authentication

Config option: `ldap`

This one is a little more complicated :)

First of all, install ___php-ldap___ for CentOS/RHEL or ___php5-ldap___ for Ubuntu/Debian.

```php
$config['auth_ldap_version'] = 3; # v2 or v3
$config['auth_ldap_server'] = "ldap.example.com";
$config['auth_ldap_port']   = 389;
$config['auth_ldap_prefix'] = "uid=";
$config['auth_ldap_suffix'] = ",ou=People,dc=example,dc=com";
$config['auth_ldap_group']  = "cn=groupname,ou=groups,dc=example,dc=com";

$config['auth_ldap_groupbase'] = "ou=group,dc=example,dc=com";
$config['auth_ldap_groups']['admin']['level'] = 10;
$config['auth_ldap_groups']['pfy']['level'] = 7;
$config['auth_ldap_groups']['support']['level'] = 1;
$config['auth_ldap_groupmemberattr'] = "memberUid";
```

Typically auth_ldap_suffix, auth_ldap_group, auth_ldap_groupbase, auth_ldap_groups are what's required to be configured.

An example config setup for use with Jumpcloud LDAP as a service is:

```php
$config['auth_mechanism'] = "ldap"; # default, other options: ldap, http-auth
unset($config['auth_ldap_group']);
unset($config['auth_ldap_groups']);
$config['auth_ldap_groups']['librenms']['level'] = 10;
$config['auth_ldap_version'] = 3; # v2 or v3
$config['auth_ldap_server'] = "ldap.jumpcloud.com";
$config['auth_ldap_port'] = 389;
$config['auth_ldap_prefix'] = "uid=";
$config['auth_ldap_suffix'] = ",ou=Users,o={id},dc=jumpcloud,dc=com";
$config['auth_ldap_groupbase'] = "cn=librenms,ou=Users,o={id},dc=jumpcloud,dc=com";
$config['auth_ldap_groupmemberattr'] = "memberUid";
```

Replace {id} with the unique ID provided by Jumpcloud.

#### HTTP Authentication / LDAP Authorization

Config option: `ldap-authorization`

This module is a combination of ___http-auth___ and ___ldap___

LibreNMS will expect the user to have authenticated via your webservice already (e.g. using Kerberos Authentication in Apache) but will use LDAP to determine and assign the userlevel of a user.
The userlevel will be calculated by using LDAP group membership information as the ___ldap___ module does.

The configuration is the same as for the ___ldap___ module with one extra option: auth_ldap_cache_ttl.
This option allows to control how long user information (user_exists, userid, userlevel) are cached within the PHP Session.
The default value is 300 seconds.
To disabled this caching (highly discourage) set this option to 0.

```php
$config['auth_ldap_cache_ttl'] = 300;
```

#### Active Directory Authentication

Config option: `active_directory`

This is similar to LDAP Authentication. Install __php_ldap__ for CentOS/RHEL or __php5-ldap__ for Debian/Ubuntu.

If you have issues with secure LDAP try setting `$config['auth_ad_check_certificates']` to `0`.

##### Require actual membership of the configured groups

If you set ```$config['auth_ad_require_groupmembership']``` to 1, the authenticated user has to be a member of the specific group. Otherwise all users can authenticate, but are limited to user level 0 and only have access to shared dashboards.

> Cleanup of old accounts is done using the authlog. You will need to set the cleanup date for when old accounts will be purged which will happen AUTOMATICALLY.
> Please ensure that you set the $config['authlog_purge'] value to be greater than $config['active_directory]['users_purge'] otherwise old users won't be removed.


##### Sample configuration

```
$config['auth_ad_url']                     = "ldaps://<your-domain.controll.er>";
$config['auth_ad_domain']                  = "<your-domain.com>";
$config['auth_ad_base_dn']                 = "<dc=your-domain,dc=com>";
$config['auth_ad_check_certificates']      = true;  // require a valid ssl certificate
$config['auth_ad_debug']                   = false; // enable for verbose debug messages
$config['active_directory']['users_purge'] = 30;    // purge users who haven't logged in for 30 days.
$config['auth_ad_require_groupmembership'] = false; // require users to be members of a group listed below
$config['auth_ad_groups']['<ad-admingroup>']['level'] = 10;
$config['auth_ad_groups']['<ad-usergroup>']['level']  = 7;
```

Replace `<ad-admingroup>` with your Active Directory admin-user group and `<ad-usergroup>` with your standard user group.

##### Active Directory redundancy

You can set two Active Directory servers by editing the `$config['auth_ad_url']` like this example:

```
$config['auth_ad_url'] = "ldaps://dc1.example.com ldaps://dc2.example.com";
```

##### Active Directory LDAP filters

You can add an LDAP filter to be ANDed with the builtin user filter (`(sAMAccountName=$username)`).

The defaults are:

```
$config['auth_ad_user_filter'] = "(objectclass=user)";
$config['auth_ad_group_filter'] = "(objectclass=group)";
```

This yields `(&(objectclass=user)(sAMAccountName=$username))` for the user filter and `(&(objectclass=group)(sAMAccountName=$group))` for the group filter.

#### Radius Authentication

Please note that a mysql user is created for each user the logs in successfully. User level 1 is assigned to those accounts so you will then need to assign the relevant permissions unless you set `$config['radius']['userlevel']` to be something other than 1.

> Cleanup of old accounts is done using the authlog. You will need to set the cleanup date for when old accounts will be purged which will happen AUTOMATICALLY.
> Please ensure that you set the $config['authlog_purge'] value to be greater than $config['radius']['users_purge'] otherwise old users won't be removed.

```php
$config['radius']['hostname']   = 'localhost';
$config['radius']['port']       = '1812';
$config['radius']['secret']     = 'testing123';
$config['radius']['timeout']    = 3;
$config['radius']['users_purge'] = 14;//Purge users who haven't logged in for 14 days.
$config['radius']['default_level'] = 1;//Set the default user level when automatically creating a user.
```

#### HTTP Authentication / AD Authorization

Config option: `ad-authorization`

This module is a combination of ___http-auth___ and ___active_directory___

LibreNMS will expect the user to have authenticated via your webservice already (e.g. using Kerberos Authentication in Apache) but will use Active Directory lookups to determine and assign the userlevel of a user.
The userlevel will be calculated by using AD group membership information as the ___active_directory___ module does.

The configuration is the same as for the ___active_directory___ module with two extra, optional options: auth_ad_binduser and auth_ad_bindpassword.
These should be set to a AD user with read capabilities in your AD Domain in order to be able to perform searches. 
If these options are omitted, the module will attempt an anonymous bind (which then of course must be allowed by your Active Directory server(s)).

There is also one extra option for controlling user information caching: auth_ldap_cache_ttl.
This option allows to control how long user information (user_exists, userid, userlevel) are cached within the PHP Session.
The default value is 300 seconds.
To disable this caching (highly discourage) set this option to 0.

```php
$config['auth_ad_binduser']     = "ad_binduser";
$config['auth_ad_bindpassword'] = "ad_bindpassword";
$config['auth_ldap_cache_ttl']  = 300;
```
