doc/Extensions/Oxidized.md, before:

source: Extensions/Oxidized.md
# Oxidized integration

You can integrate LibreNMS with [Oxidized](https://github.com/ytti/oxidized-web) in two ways:

### Config viewing

This is a straight forward use of Oxidized, it relies on you having a working Oxidized setup which is already taking config snapshots for your devices.
When you have that, you only need the following config to enable the display of device configs within the device page itself:

```php
$config['oxidized']['enabled']         = TRUE;
$config['oxidized']['url']             = 'http://127.0.0.1:8888';
```

LibreNMS supports config versioning if Oxidized does.  This is known to work with the git output module.
```php
$config['oxidized']['features']['versioning'] = true;
```

Oxidized supports various ways to utilise credentials to login to devices, you can specify global username/password within Oxidized, Group level username/password or per device.
LibreNMS currently supports sending groups back to Oxidized so that you can then define group credentials within Oxidized. To enable this support please switch on 'Enable the return of groups to Oxidized':

```php
$config['oxidized']['group_support'] = true;
```

You can set a default group that devices will fall back to with:

```php
$config['oxidized']['default_group'] = 'default';
```

### Feeding Oxidized

Oxidized has support for feeding devices into it via an API call, support for Oxidized has been added to the LibreNMS API. A sample config for Oxidized is provided below.

You will need to configure default credentials for your devices in the Oxidized config, LibreNMS doesn't provide login credentials at this time.

```bash
      source:
        default: http
        debug: false
        http:
          url: https://librenms/api/v0/oxidized
          map:
            name: hostname
            model: os
            group: group
          headers:
            X-Auth-Token: '01582bf94c03104ecb7953dsadsadwed'
```

LibreNMS is able to reload the Oxidized list of nodes, each time a device is added to LibreNMS.
To do so, edit the option in Global Settings>External Settings>Oxidized Integration or add the following to your config.php.

```php
$config['oxidized']['reload_nodes'] = true;

```

#### Using Groups

To return a group to Oxidized you can do this by matching a regex for either `hostname`, `os` or `location`. The order is `hostname` is matched first, if nothing is found then `os` is tried and then `location` is attempted.
The first match found will be used. To match on the device hostnames that contain 'lon-sw' or if the location contains 'London' then you would place the following within config.php:

```php
$config['oxidized']['group']['hostname'][] = array('regex' => '/^lon-sw/', 'group' => 'london-switches');
$config['oxidized']['group']['location'][] = array('regex' => '/london/', 'group' => 'london-switches');
```

To match on a device os of edgeos then please use the following:

```php
$config['oxidized']['group']['os'][] = array('match' => 'edgeos', 'group' => 'wireless');
```

Verify the return of groups by querying the API:

```
curl -H 'X-Auth-Token: YOURAPITOKENHERE' https://librenms.org/api/v0/oxidized				
```

If you need to, you can specify credentials for groups by using the following in your Oxidized config:

```bash
groups:
  <groupname>:
    username: <user>
    password: <password>
```

#### Miscellaneous

If you have devices which you do not wish to appear in Oxidized then you can edit those devices in Device -> Edit -> Misc and enable "Exclude from Oxidized?"

It's also possible to exclude certain device types and OS' from being output via the API. This is currently only possible via config.php:

```php
$config['oxidized']['ignore_types'] = array('server');
$config['oxidized']['ignore_os'] = array('linux');
```

If you're runnng SELinux, you'll need to allow httpd to connect outbound to the network, otherwise Oxidized integration in the web UI will silently fail:

```
setsebool -P httpd_can_network_connect 1
```

Commit message:

docs: Add a getting started section to the Oxidized docs (#5861)

doc/Extensions/Oxidized.md, after:

source: Extensions/Oxidized.md
# Oxidized integration

Integrating LibreNMS with [Oxidized](https://github.com/ytti/oxidized-web) brings the following benefits:
 - Config viewing: Current, History, and Diffs all under the `Configs` tab of each device
 - Automatic addition of devices to Oxidized: Including filtering and grouping to ease credential management
 - Configuration searching (Requires oxidized-web 0.8.0 or newer)

First you will need to [install Oxidized following their documentation](https://github.com/ytti/oxidized#installation).

Then you can procede to the LibreNMS Web UI and go to Oxidized Settings in the External Settings section of Global Settings. Enable it and enter the url to your oxidized instance.

To have devices automatically added, you will need to configure oxidized to pull them from LibreNMS [Feeding Oxidized](#feeding-oxidized)

## Detailed integration information

### Config viewing

This is a straight forward use of Oxidized, it relies on you having a working Oxidized setup which is already taking config snapshots for your devices.
When you have that, you only need the following config to enable the display of device configs within the device page itself:

```php
$config['oxidized']['enabled']         = TRUE;
$config['oxidized']['url']             = 'http://127.0.0.1:8888';
```

LibreNMS supports config versioning if Oxidized does.  This is known to work with the git output module.
```php
$config['oxidized']['features']['versioning'] = true;
```

Oxidized supports various ways to utilise credentials to login to devices, you can specify global username/password within Oxidized, Group level username/password or per device.
LibreNMS currently supports sending groups back to Oxidized so that you can then define group credentials within Oxidized. To enable this support please switch on 'Enable the return of groups to Oxidized':

```php
$config['oxidized']['group_support'] = true;
```

You can set a default group that devices will fall back to with:

```php
$config['oxidized']['default_group'] = 'default';
```

##### SELinux
If you're runnng SELinux, you'll need to allow httpd to connect outbound to the network, otherwise Oxidized integration in the web UI will silently fail:

```
setsebool -P httpd_can_network_connect 1
```


### Feeding Oxidized

Oxidized has support for feeding devices into it via an API call, support for Oxidized has been added to the LibreNMS API. A sample config for Oxidized is provided below.

You will need to configure default credentials for your devices in the Oxidized config, LibreNMS doesn't provide login credentials at this time.

```bash
      source:
        default: http
        debug: false
        http:
          url: https://librenms/api/v0/oxidized
          map:
            name: hostname
            model: os
            group: group
          headers:
            X-Auth-Token: '01582bf94c03104ecb7953dsadsadwed'
```

LibreNMS is able to reload the Oxidized list of nodes, each time a device is added to LibreNMS.
To do so, edit the option in Global Settings>External Settings>Oxidized Integration or add the following to your config.php.

```php
$config['oxidized']['reload_nodes'] = true;

```

#### Using Groups

To return a group to Oxidized you can do this by matching a regex for either `hostname`, `os` or `location`. The order is `hostname` is matched first, if nothing is found then `os` is tried and then `location` is attempted.
The first match found will be used. To match on the device hostnames that contain 'lon-sw' or if the location contains 'London' then you would place the following within config.php:

```php
$config['oxidized']['group']['hostname'][] = array('regex' => '/^lon-sw/', 'group' => 'london-switches');
$config['oxidized']['group']['location'][] = array('regex' => '/london/', 'group' => 'london-switches');
```

To match on a device os of edgeos then please use the following:

```php
$config['oxidized']['group']['os'][] = array('match' => 'edgeos', 'group' => 'wireless');
```

Verify the return of groups by querying the API:

```
curl -H 'X-Auth-Token: YOURAPITOKENHERE' https://librenms.org/api/v0/oxidized				
```

If you need to, you can specify credentials for groups by using the following in your Oxidized config:

```bash
groups:
  <groupname>:
    username: <user>
    password: <password>
```

#### Miscellaneous

If you have devices which you do not wish to appear in Oxidized then you can edit those devices in Device -> Edit -> Misc and enable "Exclude from Oxidized?"

It's also possible to exclude certain device types and OS' from being output via the API. This is currently only possible via config.php:

```php
$config['oxidized']['ignore_types'] = array('server');
$config['oxidized']['ignore_os'] = array('linux');
```
